I don't know about you guys, but I still
work here, and I'm all out of months on
my calendar again. And that means it's
time to take a look back at the best
movies this year had to offer. Here are
Cinefix's picks for the 10 best movies
of 2025.
>> [music]
[music]
>> Looking back at the cinematic shape of a
year, I like to start with what genre
had the best year. Maybe you can't say
2025 was the year of insert
hyper-specific [music] subcategory here,
but generally, there's at least one kind
of movie that had a better batting
average than the rest.
>> [music]
>> In 2025, I think it was horror. Scary
movies come in a lot of shapes and gross
sizes, and this year's crop yielded a
good example of most of them. Danny
Boyle went back to his zombie-infested
UK with 28 Years Later and The Promise
of the Bone Temple. We got fabulously
fun body horror from real-life married
couple Alison Brie and Dave Franco in
Together, while some of our greatest
directors got in on the act as well with
Steven Soderbergh's haunted house
thriller Presence and David Cronenberg's
well, David Cronenberg-as-hell The
Shrouds. We got not one, but two entries
from Oz Perkins, even though your
mileage may vary on The Keeper, but he's
still an interesting dude. While sequels
had a great showing, too, with Black
Phone 2 [music] and Final Destination:
Bloodlines. Even Five Nights at Freddy's
made a bunch of money again. Hell, we
even got the best ever horror film from
the perspective of a dog this year.
Horror fans ate well in 2025. Michael
and Danny Philippou followed up their
incredible debut with another banger in
Bring Her Back, while Zach Cregger's
second film Weapons cleared the very
high bar set by his first. And truth be
told, Weapons might have lapped the
field here if it didn't finish a creepy
kids nose behind our pick, Ryan
Coogler's Sinners.
Yeah, I washed these floors.
Yeah.
What was on them?
And I thought y'all was dead set on
buying the place.
More time I spend with y'all, the less
sure I am you boys are serious about it.
Ain't no boys here. I'm just grown men.
With grown men money and grown men
bullets.
Michael B. Jordan and his dual leading
roles, the 70mm film grain aesthetic,
the Southern fried vampire narrative,
the cosmic musical interludes through
time, Sinners, like the horror genre in
general this year, did a little bit of
everything. A gorgeously shot period
piece about twin brothers returning home
from their notorious adventures in war
and crime, this movie would be good even
if that was all it was about. But by the
time the vampires show up in the vampire
movie, they escalate an already
emotional journey through the Jim Crow
South of the 1930s to a violent and
bloody affair that somehow also
perfectly imbued with music.
The supernatural elements of Sinners get
highlighted with ancestral music from
the heroes of the story and the vampires
in a way that's truly unique, spanning
generations, all the while draining each
other's blood in increasingly profane
ways. And if you were lucky enough to
see it in 70mm, it just looked like
nothing has in quite some time, making
it my favorite horror movie of the year.
>> [snorts]
>> Let's get some unpleasantness out of the
way before we go too much further and go
from what worked best in 2025 to the
genre that really didn't. This year, the
blockbuster didn't fare too well at all.
There were some thrilling moments here
and there, of course, but the popcorn
mainlining
buy-the-whole-seat-but-you'll-only-use-the-edge-of-it
tentpole movies left a little to be
desired. The capes had a just okay go of
things, while the MCU got reacquainted
with Marvel's first family and
introduced us to new asterisk-less
Avengers and a brave new Captain
America. DC fared better with James
Gunn's Superman kicking out his new DCU,
but I'll probably talk more about that
later. However, most of our
tried-and-true blockbuster franchises
really kind of stumbled. It turns out
that Mission: Impossible will
self-destruct in eight movies, and
Jurassic World can only be reborn for
the first seven or eight minutes of
runtime before it falls back into the
same old stuff. And while Avatar: Fire
and Ash is every bit the good reason to
see movies on seven-story screens
wherever possible, it was also pretty
clearly the weakest entry of the three
Avatars. Strangely enough, the best that
long-standing film franchises had to
offer this year was on TV. If you'll
allow me a small-screen tangent for a
shout-out to all the great stuff that
was streaming this year, Alien Earth was
a goopy xenomorph blast, Peacemaker gave
us dueling John Cenas, and Pennywise
scared the crap out of us for eight
episodes instead of just two movies.
Pluribus, The Chair Company, season 2 of
Severance, The Pit, The Studio, The
Rehearsal. My god, the idea that Sully
was listening to Evanescence
Adolescence. Task, you can rattle off a
dozen great shows that make a good case
for TV having the better year in
general.
After 487 seasons, they've still got it.
But, this section is about blockbuster
movies, and this tangent was about
franchises on the small screen. So, my
sub pick honorable mention for number
nine is going to Andor season 2, a
prequel done absolutely and impeccably
right. Tony Gilroy, Diego Luna, and
company took us all to dramatic irony
school, crafting a compelling story with
a bunch of characters whose fate is
already known. The banality of the
Empire's evil is on full display in a
political drama that would have felt at
home set in any time period, much less a
galaxy far, far away, and crescendos in
an amazing sequence of wanton
destruction on Gorman. It really was the
best that any blockbuster franchise has
mustered in [music] the past couple of
years. But, we lean towards the silver
screen here on Cinefix. And even though
there's part of me that wants to reward
the chicken jockeys out there for
Minecraft being a movie that might not
be everybody's cup of tea, but you can't
say that Jared Hass and Jack Black
didn't absolutely understand the
assignment. No, instead I'm giving it to
a legit movie star-led, big, loud, fast,
plugged into the driver's seat ride of
F1: The Movie. Why does he got a helmet?
Safety.
Joshua, your seat is safe, okay?
Sonny's here for the audition.
When was the last time you won a race?
Sunday, Daytona. Oh, I'm sorry. I I
meant Formula 1. Oh, I'm sorry. Then,
same as you.
>> [laughter]
>> Brad Pitt is one of the last true movie
stars left in the business, and Joseph
Kosinski borrowed some practical
filmmaking daredevilry he learned on Top
Gun: Maverick from one of the other last
true movie stars to create a movie that
you just kind of had to see on the big
screen. Innovative [music] camera
placements and actually being on the
track with real F1 racers for parts of
production were only part of the appeal
of this movie. In some ways, very few of
them bad, this was a paint-by-numbers
sports flick, but it had a veteran
swagger and gained small points in
crucial spots to keep it running ahead
of the pack, just like its main
character. Most importantly, it was a
movie designed to put butts in seats.
And what is a blockbuster supposed to be
if not that?
>> [snorts]
>> While we're in the blockbuster
neighborhood, we may as well pop by and
check on its neighbor, science fiction.
While the word epic gets pretty easily
tacked onto sci-fi in a logline, the
best science fiction this year was
smaller. Bong Joon-ho's Mickey 17 was a
strange blast of futuristic satire,
while The Long Walks bleak countryside
is a far cry from a usual sci-fi
setting, but I think it still counts
here. Companion took an AI's perspective
on the modern world we're barreling
into, while Bugonia let its sci-fi flag
raise slowly. Predator: Badlands was
another great laser-guided weapon in Dan
Trachtenberg's ever more impressive
arsenal, but it's going to be hard to
give the sci-fi category to anybody else
in a year where Guillermo del Toro
adapted the original piece of science
fiction with Frankenstein.
>> [screaming and groaning]
>> A passion project for one of our
generation's greatest working
filmmakers, Frankenstein is a match of
artist and subject that makes almost too
much sense. del Toro's luscious
production design and Jacob Elordi's
superhuman monster would have been
enough, but Mia Goth's wardrobe is worth
a Netflix subscription on its own.
Frankenstein is a classic tale that's
been told a million times over the past
100 years, but it's that kind of
familiarity that really highlights the
work of a great director. The flourishes
added by del Toro stand out all the
bolder because we know this story.
There's a special kind of confidence in
taking on a classic, and this one is on
the same frequency as Francis Ford
Coppola's take on Dracula, a faithful
adaptation of a classic work, adding all
the style the director can muster, while
letting the substance of the text speak
for itself.
To be perfectly honest, I had this list
uh organized a little differently, but
now it's impossible to not segue
directly from that point about
Frankenstein straight into remakes. It's
a debut for my year-end list as a
category onto itself, but they've been
such a ubiquitous part of our Hollywood
diet for so long, it's well past time
they showed up. Frankenstein, of course,
gets a shout here, but we've talked
about it enough. Spike Lee picked up a
Kurosawa classic, gave it a
Prince-inspired title with Highest to
Lowest, and gave us another remarkable
Denzel Washington performance along the
way. The War of the Roses got an
underrated new spin with one of the most
charming comedic ensembles in the last
few years, and Edgar Wright revisited
the Running Man Stephen King source
material more so than the Schwarzenegger
film, while the animated to live action
trend continued with a one-to-one remake
of How to Train Your Dragon that I was
surprised my daughter liked so much.
But, where remakes are concerned, I have
to give it to the aforementioned
Superman.
Ms. Lane.
Recently, you've come under a lot of
fire for what some might
>> of fire, but It's a lot.
Today, the Secretary of Defense said he
was going to look into your actions in
Braevia.
That That's funny?
It's not funny funny, it's just um I
mean, come on. My actions? I stopped a
war.
Maybe. Uh not maybe. I did. It's
honestly a little easy to forget that
superhero movies are also, a lot of the
time, remakes. Generally, we call them
reboots, and I suppose there's a
distinction in there somewhere, but that
feels like hairsplitting for the sake of
it. James Gunn remade Superman, not just
in the sense that he made a new movie
about the character, but the 2025
[music]
version of the last son of Krypton was
remade in a new image as well. David
Corenswet's warm and genuine Kal-El is a
far cry from the brooding Henry Cavill
version from the Snyderverse. And Gunn's
film managed to be all about Superman's
origins without actually telling another
origin story. If nothing else, Superman
is more proof that characters like this
can change to fit the times, to tell the
stories that need to be told in any
given year, and be remade in the image
of the heroes that are needed. Not the
hero. No, don't don't play that Don't
play that Dark Knight thing.
>> [snorts]
>> I know it's DC.
I don't care. For number six, I've got
no real segue here. So, let's just start
talking about cartoons. Animation had a
very interesting year. A lot of the
usual suspects dropped a lot of their
usual fare. Disney dropped a sequel to
Zootopia that I think was more fun than
the first, and a prequel [music] to The
Lion King from Barry Jenkins that was
way better than I expected. Their
colleagues at Pixar gave us Elio, full
of the animation pioneers signature
[music] heart, while DreamWorks gave us
a sequel to Bad Guys 2, which continued
the trend of big-ticket cartoons with
innovative art styles. But, there were a
handful of surprises as well. I did not
have a good Looney Tunes movie on my
bingo card, but The Day the Earth Blew
Up was a lot of fun. And Arco, which
technically gets a wider release in
2026, was the answer to what if Hayao
Miyazaki made Interstellar? And you
can't tell the story of an animated 2025
without K-pop demon hunters in the mix,
or some huge anime hits that broke into
theaters here in the West like Demon
Slayer and Chainsaw Man. Meanwhile,
Nezha 2 became the highest-grossing
movie in China ever.
However, where animation that surprised
me is concerned, I'm going with the big
franchise on the small screen again, and
Predator: Killer of Killers.
As part of Dan Trachtenberg's job as
keeper of all things Yautja, Killer of
Killers was the secret Predator movie we
were promised a few years back. An
animated anthology in four parts, Killer
of Killers followed the centuries-long
hunting spree the titular aliens enjoyed
here on Earth, before dropping a fairly
major bit of lore on us in a post-credit
scene. But, that's not why I want to
talk about this movie here. This film
and these vignettes are some of the best
action choreography in recent memory.
Not only is the fighting cool with
inventive ways for the Predators to kill
their prey, but all of the action is so
perfectly tied to emotion. There is
cause and effect, setup and payoff with
everything in this movie, so much so
that it's worth studying. Take, for
instance, the sword in the railing in
feudal Japan. The notch in the wood that
symbolizes the wedge driven by a shogun
between his two sons, and the bitterness
held for decades, and the way that notch
plays into the fight between the
brothers is perfect. It's wordless
emotional impact, and for it to show up
in an animated Predator movie of all
places is reason enough to make it my
pick for one of the best animated movies
of the year.
All right, enough of this big movies is
all I've talked about so far [__]
Let's see about some low budgets here at
the halfway point. Independent films are
a much-needed addition to the balanced
cinematic diet, or as independent as we
can get them in low these trying times
of corporate consolidation. But, that's
a different video/article
altogether, so let's just go with small
movies. We're looking for small movies
off the beaten path, even if Focus
Features is technically a Comcast
company. This year, The Ballad of
Wallace Island was a heartwarming bit of
comedy worth going back to if you missed
it. Lynne Ramsay continued her
fascinating run of atmospheric dramas
with Robert Pattinson and Jennifer
Lawrence in Die My Love, which was only
part of what was a great year for movies
about how hard it can be to have kids,
[music]
which continued with If I Had Legs, I'd
Kick You, which was as difficult a movie
to watch as I've ever seen with an
incredible performance from Rose Byrne.
And the way you never see the kids'
face.
So good.
Sorry, Baby is an incredible dark comedy
from a first-time director and Ava
Victor, who also wrote [music] and
starred in it, but my favorite indie of
the year is actually Nia DaCosta's
Hedda.
Judge Brack!
You're meant only for a party, aren't
you? Buying you this house was a Tesman.
Shall I
punish you? Don't point that thing at
me.
Are you out of your bloody mind? Oh, no.
I didn't hit you, did I? Does your
husband know you're up there? Ask him
yourself.
Based on a 19th-century Russian play,
Hedda stars Tessa Thompson in a
nightmare of privilege and plotting at a
country estate. Hedda is gorgeously
shot, using [music] the halls of the
house to create frames within frames,
highlighting the layers of motives and
agendas conflicting throughout a
debaucherous party.
Thompson is predictably great in the
title role, making the most out of a
character known as the female Hamlet,
flitting between a victim of her time
and a proper villain. There's a touch of
horror woven throughout the film as
well, a sense of something terrible
always about to happen that you might
both recognize from DaCosta's work on
Candyman and be looking forward to from
her work on 28 Years Later: The Bone
Temple. The point is, Hedda is an
absolute blast of bad people doing bad
things to each other, proving that the
classics can still resonate, especially
with a modernization as sexy as this
one.
All right, we've been at this for about
2,600 words. It's time to get some
laughs in here. Let's talk about the
year in comedy. There were a lot of
funny movies, but it would be hard to
describe 2025 as a great year for
comedy. Novocaine, for example, was a
solid blend of action and romantic
comedy, while Good Fortune gave us a
funny R-rated Keanu Reeves role we
didn't realize we'd been praying for.
Wes Anderson's latest, The Phoenician
Scheme, was every bit of his trademark
quirky posturing and a good time that
didn't quite live up to the auteur's
best, while Friendship proved Tim
Robinson's I Think You Should Leave
brilliance can be expanded to a
feature-length runtime. If there was a
trend in comedy this year worth pointing
out, it may be the year of revisiting
the classics. The Naked Gun got a Liam
Neeson-led sequel that was okay, while
Anaconda, of all things, got a comedy
reboot as well. Of course, Spinal Tap's
end continued in 2025, making us ever
more grateful for the work Rob Reiner
shared with us over the decades. But,
for our number four pick, we're going
with a quieter approach to comedy and
the love letter to inconsequential
baseball games, Ephus.
The Ephus makes him lose track of time.
It's pretty mean that way.
I like that. It's kind of like baseball.
I'm looking around for something to
happen,
poof, game's over.
Making the festival rounds in 2024 and
releasing this spring just in time for
baseball season, Ephus is the story of a
small northeastern men's baseball league
playing its last game before their field
is bulldozed to make way for a new
school. Outside of the nine-inning
structure of the baseball game itself,
there's little more than that
narratively, leaving us with just a
slice of life to ponder things like
getting older
unwritten rules, and adult friendship,
and rare slow pitches that shouldn't
work, but do. The movie's namesake, a
rare slow pitch that shouldn't work, but
does, is such a perfect metaphor for the
topics Ephus concerns itself with, but
it also seems to be the rule with which
director and co-writer Carson Lund
approached the making of the film.
There's a skillful observational
perspective at play, never rooting us
fully in the shoes of any of the
characters, but watching like the random
onlookers pausing to wonder at the
middle-aged non-athletes dedicating
themselves to a meaningless baseball
game. We are only meant to witness the
goofy trash talking and achy knees.
There's nobody to root for or against,
nobody to be mad at or hopeful for, just
a charming moment in time that's ending.
It's funny and sweet, and like the
titular off-speed pitch,
you just have to wait on it until it's
past.
You play ball, kid?
Yeah.
Do yourself a favor.
Don't.
Next door to laughing at something is
being thrilled by it. It's the same set
of muscles, I think, and like the year
in comedy, thrillers did all right in
2025.
Rian Johnson's third Knives Out
installment, Wake Up Dead Man, went back
to the thrilling Agatha Christie roots
that Glass Onion was kind of lacking,
while Kathryn Bigelow revisited her Zero
Dark Thirty vibes with the very solid A
House of Dynamite on Netflix. Darren
Aronofsky is always worth a watch, as he
was with Austin Butler in Caught
Stealing. Edward Berger is earning that
status as well, as I couldn't wait to
get my eyes on Ballad of a Small Player.
But, for our pick in the thrillers
category, I'm going with a different
trusted hand in the director's chair,
and Steven Soderbergh's Black Bag. We
have a game.
I don't think I'm willing to submit to
this. And here's how it works. We go
around the table, and George will ask
each one of you a question.
Any of you get it wrong,
you lose. This is inappropriate.
>> And the loser
doesn't get up from the table.
There's something so calming about a
bunch of physically attractive spies
doing spy [__] together. There was no
way I wasn't going to love Black Bag.
It's comfort food, as much as any
chicken soup anybody's grandma could
make, but in the hands of Soderbergh,
this particular bowl of British-accented
mac and cheese is stylish and sexy, full
of teases, setups, and double crosses
flashed in non-linear cuts. For me, it's
also a benchmark of a movie from a
filmmaker whose fluency in the language
of cinema can't be topped. Even if Black
Bag isn't a   great
piece of cinema, it's worth highlighting
because there's no reason why every
movie should not be this good. It looks
incredible. The story is an efficient 90
minutes bookended by equally tense
sequences around a dining table, in
which every character is clearly drawn
along with their motivations. It's part
Bond, part Tinker Tailor, part Ocean's
Eleven, and just as good as any of them
at their best. There's nothing this
movie doesn't do exactly right, and it
was my favorite thriller of the year.
Winding down our list, we can't forget
to head overseas. Which sea? Yeah, it
doesn't matter. Let's just tap into our
inner subtitle enthusiast [music]
and take a look at the international
cinema we were gifted with this year.
Good news is, there are a handful of
rightful claims to this category, and
were it not for the way we break up our
movie lists categorically and unranked,
several of them may well have been more
than an honorable mention by now. No
Other Choice is exactly the kind of
darkly funny film we're lucky to get
from Park Chan-wook, lending a bloody
and literal approach to getting the axe.
While Brazil's The Secret Agent brings
maybe the best Wagner Moura performance
we've seen so far, and a slick, stylish
energy to the political thriller. From
Iran, It Was Just an Accident is an
incredible work of defiance that's
devastating throughout, and there
[music] were some decidedly more artsy
indie entries from Zambia by way of the
UK with On Becoming a Guinea Fowl, or
China's Caught by the Tides, a film made
from decades worth of randomly shot
footage assembled into a feature film.
Scandinavia gave us The Ugly Stepsister
and some truly gnarly body horror that
would have been a fine choice way back
in number 10, but we're going to a
different Norwegian film for this pick,
and Joachim Trier's Sentimental Value.
It seems there was a vein of films this
year about parenting that spanned the
globe. Sentimental Value's contribution
is couched in the pursuit of art to the
detriment of the artist's familial
relationships. I admittedly don't have a
lot of patience for movies about the
healing power of art. They just don't
normally speak to me, but what I found
great about Sentimental Value is that
the art was never the thing. It was just
incidental set next to the necessity of
understanding each other. The visual
storytelling at play was truly brilliant
as well, with one of the best cold opens
to a film I've ever seen. Trier uses a
house as something alive, a thing that
feels and wants, and more importantly,
bears witness to the events that take
place within its walls. The characters,
and oftentimes the camera, float through
the rest of the film while things are
happening to them, framed from the
perspective of the house through windows
and doors. It's a thought experiment
that gives context for our lives through
the lens of something lasting and
permanent that is strongly punctuated by
sudden cuts to black, like memories
being strung together
stream-of-consciousness style with
little gaps in between them. Trier even
gives the house its own kind of ending,
one which I felt every bit as much as
the journey of either of the two leads
in their fantastic performances.
And here we arrive at our final stop.
Number one on the call sheet, number one
on this movie [music] list, the prestige
drama. The most nebulous and frustrating
category where all the Oscars go to run
around free with all that space up there
on that farm.
They really are happier up there. For
all the Oscar bait eye-rolling one can
throw at this know-it-when-you-see-it
type of film, at the end of the day,
they are just really good movies that,
through some alchemy of A-list performer
or upstart auteur, have set themselves
apart from the field. This year's
Shakespeare-based drama comes in the
form of Paul Mescal and Jessie Buckley
as Mr. and Mrs. The Bard dealing with
the loss of their son through the
healing power of art. Joel Edgerton
quietly ponders existence as a logger in
the early 1900s of Train Dreams. Both
Safdie brothers went out on their own to
give us Marty Supreme and The Smashing
Machine, while Ari Aster gave us a
COVID-era Western, earning a critical
response as split down the middle as the
time in which it was set, but it
deserves a mention here either way.
Nuremberg scratched that
watch-a-war-movie-with-your-dad
itch and looked great doing it, while
most of our other choices from previous
categories are going to enjoy a
productive awards season as well, but
the most likely to collect all the
trophies has to be Paul Thomas
Anderson's One Battle After Another.
We have trouble ahead, and the road
isn't clear.
Wait, excuse me. Who Who Who Who is
this?
Who is this?
>> I need the greeting code, Bob.
Oh, [__]
Well, I don't remember the greeting code
because I got a little bit high,
and I It's been like years, so you got
to help me out here with this. I don't
You're going to have to think.
Right. PTA's One Battle After Another
is, without a doubt, an epic. Not only
does the film bounce ahead through time
from one generation's fight to the next,
the movie does a little bit of
everything from a nuts-and-bolts
filmmaking perspective as well, making
it fascinating to sit in front of for
all of its 2 hours and 40-odd minutes.
It was shot mostly in Vis Division,
featured one of the trippiest car chases
ever put to film, alongside a sparse
score from Jonny Greenwood that builds
impeccable tension with minimal piano.
The villain chews insane amounts of
scenery in service of an organization
that's just as bonkers, while the hero
does screwball comedy that would make
His Girl Friday proud. Take for example
the stretch of One Battle where Leonardo
DiCaprio's Bob Ferguson first gets the
call that his daughter is in danger.
From here to the moment he falls off the
roof is a continuous 30-minute sequence
of terror, comedy, stress, frustration,
and absurdity. The pace is unbearable,
the struggle is playing out on three
different fronts, the anxiety is a
blast, and that's the entire movie in a
nutshell. But, the real brilliance of
One Battle After Another is how much fun
it is, while the subject matter is
anything but. It's bad out there, and
it's hard to know what we're supposed to
do about it, but One Battle After
Another says there is love and purpose
out there in the meaningless chaos, and
that's a reassuring thing. One Battle
After Another is a masterpiece of the
craft and a story told in the right time
and place, which is why I think it's one
of the best movies of 2025. PEOPLE
REVOLUTION!
WELL, WHAT DO YOU THINK? What was your
favorite movie of the year? I bet it was
on this list somewhere, even if I didn't
say it out loud and it was just a clip
that we used as B-roll. Let me know what
it was, and in the meantime, be sure to
subscribe to CineFix and IGN for more
movie lists.